# The Prometheans

Firewall maintains classified facilities and sensitive operations, but among its deepest secrets is the existence of the Prometheans: ASIs that work with Firewall in the pursuit of its goals. Most of these ASIs predate the Fall and survived the apocalypse in secret. It is very possible that transhumanity would not have survived at all without their aid. The precise origins of each of the Prometheans vary, and in some cases, are unknown, but their commonality is that they are at least moderately friendly to transhumanity’s interests. These godlike ASIs worked with Firewall’s precursor organizations and were instrumental in establishing the Eye. Their preternatural functionality is the key to Firewall’s survival and the security of the Eye. The Prometheans’ existence is unknown to the vast majority of Firewall’s members, though well-informed proxies suspect their existence.

The Prometheans allied to Firewall are complex beings with far-ranging interests and sometimes inscrutable motivations. When they interact directly, they do so via forks or intermediary agents (often AGIs). They never reveal themselves for what they truly are in anything but the most dire of circumstances. Those Firewall members who are aware of the Prometheans are all grateful of the crucial aid they render, but not all fully trust them. Firewall would collapse quickly without the help of these ASIs, a fact that keeps some proxies up at night.

The Prometheans are potent allies but should be used with care. Even unraveling hints of their existence could fuel an entire campaign, but the mysteries at the heart of Firewall’s conspiracy are likely to create more questions than they answer.

Prometheans occasionally make use of stripped-down forks to take a more direct role in affairs. These use the same stats as TITAN [Fetches](22-titan-machines-and-minions.md#fetch), except that they do not carry the exsurgent virus.
